                   VLM-TOOL: /var/log/messages analysis tool

   Linux systems can log copious amounts of data in the
   "/var/log/messages" files. Too often clustering environments are
   configured so that each machine keeps its own "/var/log/messages" files
   locally. Then, when an event happens on one machine, the other cluster
   nodes may react and generate their own log messages. All this gets
   recorded, but looking at the individual log files makes trying to
   reconstruct the chain of events a real pain. The vlm-tool(1) is
   designed to make this much simpler.

A Knowledgeable Grep

   In its most basic usage, vlm-tool(1) works much like grep(1) in that
   there is a set of built-in rules which identify interesting log
   entries, so:
# vlm-tool /var/log/messages

   Suppose you have the message logs from two cluster nodes:
$ vlm-tool node1-messages node2-messages

   The content of all input files will be merged, using the timestamps
   conveniently placed on each log entry. All the log files should be for
   the same calendar year since the log timestamps do not include a year.
   The algorithm tries to keep the lines for each host clumped together if
   many lines share the same timestamp.

Flooded Logs

   Sometimes logs will get endless chatter about some uninteresting topic.
   You can just ignore those entries:
$ vlm-tool -i ntpd node1-messages node2-messages

   Any line matching the pattern ntp is just dropped from the input.

   Have too many trigger patterns to keep writing on the command line? No
   problem, just put them in a file, one per line. Use your ignored
   trigger collection like this:
$ vlm-tool -I my_ignores node1-messages node2-messages

Adding Your Own Triggers

   The built-in matching trigger patterns include strings which I've found
   associated with problems. Perhaps you have your own log entry you need
   included:
$ vlm-tool -a dull node1-messages node2-messages

   Now, any log entry matching the trigger dull will be shown.

   Maybe you have lots and lots of custom triggers. Add them to a file,
   one-per-line, and use them like this:
$ vlm-tool -A my_rules messages

Ignoring The Built-in Trigger Patterns

   You can focus your search to only a specific trigger:
$ vlm-tool -n -a panic node1-messages

   The -n switch inhibits populating the built-in triggers. This also
   works with the -A option to read the new triggers from a file.

Debugging Trigger Patterns

   Each trigger pattern is a regex(3) regular expression. They are applied
   in an arbitrary order; first match wins and no further matching is
   done.

   You can see which trigger rule fired on a particular entry:
$ vlm-tool -r messages

  Caution

   So you can better see what is happening, this will output all your
   messages but will highlight the matched entries, and include the first
   few characters of the matched trigger.

Highlighting Matched Entries In Context

   Sometimes just seeing the selected log messages is not enough. You need
   to see the surrounding log entries, too.
$ vlm-tool -m node1-messages node2-messages

   Each log entry will be output, so if your log file are big, be prepared
   for lots of output. By default, log entries which match a trigger
   pattern, will be prefixed with a thumb which defaults to "- ", a minus
   and a space. Log entries which are not matched, are prefixed with
   enough spaces so that the columns still line up.

   The default thumb was chosen to be small, and easy to type into less(1)
   or vi(1). You can change your thumb string if you like, see the man(1)
   page.

Colorized Output

   If you run vlm-tool(1) using the -c switch, ANSI color sequences will
   be embedded into the output.

  What The Matching Trigger Pattern Matched

   In addition to the thumb, that part of the log entry which matched the
   trigger rule is highlighted. This can make scanning through a really
   large log file quicker, because it attracts your eye to the relevant
   portion of the message.

   You do not get choice of color.

  Colored Host Names

   The hostname portion of each log line is colored. This can help
   visually group related log entries together and avoid the eye-tedium of
   matching entries to the host which logged them.

   Host name colors are recycled, so on larger clusters host name colors
   will be duplicated. Hopefully not too many of these hosts will be
   logging at the same time, but your mileage may vary.

Saving The Results For Later

   Instead of writing to the standard output stdout, you can redirect to a
   file:
$ vlm-tool -o for_later messages messages.1

Recognizing Compressed Files

   Frequently, part of the log rotation includes compressing the older log
   files. No need to uncompress them before using vlm-tool(1) because
   files compressed using gzip (.gz), bzip2 (.bz2), compress (.Z), and xz
   (.xz) are recognized by their filename extensions.

When In Doubt

   Read the man(1) page.
